A Diverson

At my son's karate school, they spend most of their time doing various
exercises, with the occasional round of sparring thrown in. But every
now and then the teacher finds a way to break the routine by injecting
some kind of game or surprise into the mix. This kata is one of those.
It's nothing serious, and unlikely to have practical benefits (unless
you're working in some fairly specialized areas).
Think of binary numbers: sequences of 0's and 1's. How many n-digit
binary numbers are there that don't have two adjacent 1 bits? For
example, for three-digit numbers, five of the possible eight
combinations meet the criteria: 000, 001, 010, 011, 100, 101, 110, 111.
What is the number for sequences of length 4, 5, 10, n?

Having worked out the pattern, there's a second part to the question:
can you prove why that relationship exists?

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Data Munging

Martin Fowler gave me a hard time for KataTwo, complaining that it was
yet another single-function, academic exercise. Which, or course, it
was. So this week let’s mix things up a bit.

Here’s an exercise in three parts to do with real world data. Try hard
not to read ahead—do each part in turn.

Part One: Weather Data

In weather.dat you’ll find daily weather data for Morristown, NJ for
June 2002. Download this text file, then write a program to output the
day number (column one) with the smallest temperature spread (the
maximum temperature is the second column, the minimum the third column).

Part Two: Soccer League Table

The file football.dat contains the results from the English Premier
League for 2001/2. The columns labeled ‘F’ and ‘A’ contain the total
number of goals scored for and against each team in that season (so
Arsenal scored 79 goals against opponents, and had 36 goals scored
against them). Write a program to print the name of the team with the
smallest difference in ‘for’ ite a program to output the day number
(column one) with the smallest temperature spread (the maximum
temperature is the second column, the minimum the third column).

Part Two: Soccer League Table

The file football.dat contains the results from the English Premier
League for 2001/2. The columns labeled ‘F’ and ‘A’ contain the total
number of goals scored for and against each team in that season (so
Arsenal scored 79 goals agait?
Is factoring out as much common code as possible always a good thing?
Did the readability of the programs suffer because of this requirement?
How about the maintainability?)
